All right this will be a quick video.
I just want to talk about the rules the restrictions of what we can and can't name variables and then
also the stylistic conventions of what you should name variables which you technically don't have to
follow.
OK.
So first up let's talk about restrictions.
So in Python you can name variables with whatever you want with a couple exceptions.
So variables have to start with a letter or underscore.
So we can't have one start with number nine or a parentheses or something or a question mark needs to
be a letter or underscore so casts underscore cats is good two cats is not good.
Next up the rest of the name must consist of letters numbers or underscores so we can have numbers in
our variables that just can't start off the variable.
So Cat 2 is fine but something like hey at you it's not OK because it's the at sign whatever that thing
is called.
It's not a letter number or underscore It also names are case sensitive.
So this is an important one.
These two variable names are not equal to one another.
If you haven't seen this exclamation to mean not not equals we'll see that in a bit but uppercase Katz
is not the same as cats with a capitalized C or this version uppercase C..
Cats is not equal to all lowercase cats.
Python thinks that they're all entirely different.
So those are the rules.
The things that you have to follow in Python and I'll show you.
I mean make some space here.
I could make a new variable.
You know Cat 2.
Blah blah blah.
Let's just do that equals one.
Why not.
And I can hit tabs would have to type that whole thing.
It's not a good variable name because it makes no sense and it's really long but Python's finace it.
But if I try and do two people equals I don't know three four or four.
Python gives me an error.
And this is actually probably our first error we've seen in the course.
It tells me invalid syntax and it's pointing to two people meaning that it's not a valid name for variable.
It just gives up.
Python has rules.
It does it.
It reads your code and it gets to a new word and it notices OK for this to be a variable.
It has to start with a letter or an underscore and it doesn't so I don't know what to do with this.
I'm going to freak out and throw an error.
OK so you'll get the same error if you tried to do something like cold at gmail equals something to
do numbers.
That's not my email address by the way I wish it was but it's not as you see here we get an error.
It's actually different.
It can't assign to operator and that's because Python thinks that these symbols are operators will talk
about that later.
Sort of like the plus sign and the minus sign or operators so we couldn't do Colt plus one equals six.
Same problem.
I think you are trying to assign to the plus sign and the plus sign already mean something in Python.
So it's a problem.
OK so we talked about what you can and can't name things will actually cause real problems.
Now let's talk about conventions.
You haven't heard of naming conventions or code conventions.
It's just a way of saying style guidelines things that most people think you should do and you might
get made fun of if you don't do but won't actually break your application.
So most Python programmers prefer to use standard style conventions when naming things.
So that means variables should be snake case which means using underscores to separate words.
Camel case.
If you're familiar with that means using an uppercase letter so something like Caml uppercase case vs
snake case where a word is separated by an underscore.
So you can do this in python.
Remember there's nothing that prevents you from using uppercase letters but the convention is to use
underscores and you know it's called Python and snake case makes sense.
So there we go.
Now variables should be lowercase.
Most variables should be lowercase.
There are a couple exceptions so if you see something like this all capitals and they case refers to
things that are called constant which we haven't talked about yet but they're just variables.
But the idea is that they don't change.
So something like pi you don't want to rewrite pi a bunch of times right.
Three point 1 4 1 5 9 blah blah blah blah blah.
I used to know a lot more digits.
We don't want to type that ourselves manually so we could store it in a variable but to make it clear
that it's a constant that it shouldn't change because the value of pi shouldn't change in our code.
We put it in all caps.
So if we see code that has constants you'll notice them because they're in all caps and that's the reason
there is so little flag that says hey I'm a constant Don't mess with me.
If you see upper camel case so camel case again means that we're not using underscores we're using capital
letters to separate words that refers to a class which That's all I'll say on that for now.
We will see classes a lot later on in the course but upper camel case is usually referring to classes
and then variables that start an end with two underscores like this.
So there's two right there on either side are called Danders stands for double underscore D under.
But really the idea is that you just shouldn't touch them.
They're not supposed to be for you to mess with.
So this is really this is more common when you're working with other people's code maybe an open source
project or something that we're using that we didn't write right.
Well the author of that code could basically say please this variable is not meant to be touched or
messed with because it could cause real problems to the application or to the library.
So we recommend you just leave it alone.
Now that doesn't mean that you couldn't change it.
There's no way for you know in Python to say that this thing cannot ever be changed at all.
But it's more of a way just a signifier that you should do this alone.
OK.
So that's it for conventions.
So there are restrictions and conventions just keep in mind what's what.
But really it helps if you just kind of merge them together and just follow the conventions as if they
were restrictions.
Now make it easier for you.